Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod.
We have an advanced lesson for you today.
My name is Marco.
Katrina And my name is Katrin and I'm very excited
about this lesson, Marco.
Marco It's very interesting.
It's about a very controversial topic and a very popular person in history, Charles
Darwin.
Katrina That's right.
So he's most famous perhaps for his book, The Origin
of the Species and we're going to be talking a lot about science today.
So put your thinking caps on.
Marco Alright, so without further ado, why don't
we listen to this dialogue for the first time.
Man, it's been forever.
What have you been up to lately?
Charles I've been busy preparing for my exams, not
to mention all the term papers I've had to write.
Katrina Same here.
I'm up to my neck in work, but at least we've got summer holidays after finals.
Where are you headed now?
Charles I'm going to my anthro class.
We've been focusing on Darwin all term since it's the 200th anniversary of his birth
or whatever.
I'm sick and tired of Darwin, Darwin, Darwin!
Katrina What?
Why?
How can you not like Darwin?
His work turned thousands of years of ideas about creation on their head.
His theory of evolution revolutionized the fields of biology and anthropology.
Charles I don't like him.
His theory of human evolution and natural selection is full of holes.
It's not as solid as you make it out to be.
Katrina Say that again and you'll make enemies with
half of the academy, not to mention your professors.
Furthermore, the explanation proposed by Darwin about the origin of the species and the process
of natural selection constitutes a grand step towards a coherent understanding of the world
and its very beginnings.
Charles I'm not minimizing his huge contributions
to science.
It's just that his theory reminds me of the conundrum of the chicken and the egg.
Katrina What are you talking about?
Charles Which came first?
The chicken or the egg?
This is a classic logical problem, and I think it applies to Darwin's theory.
How did the very first living organism come to be?
Katrina Interesting.
I think that question is better suited for my philosophy class.
In the meantime, how about we settle this with a duel?
Alright, interesting, they have very different views on Charles Darwin, right?
Katrina They do, and they're both pretty nerdy people.
This is a very nerdy university conversation that's happening between classes.
Charles Yeah, I think maybe they're like PhD candidates
or something.
Katrina Perhaps.
Alright, so before we get to talking about some of
the ideas in today's dialogue, let's talk about some of the words and phrases that we
hear to understand better what's going on.
The first part we're going to talk about in today's Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway.
Charles Alright, on Language Takeaway today, let's
take a look at the first word.
And well, one of the things that many people say is that Darwin revolutionized the fields
of biology.
Katrina And so he revolutionized these because he
pushed them forward.
He made many changes.
He forced changes.
So people had to change the way that they thought about these things.
Charles If you revolutionize something, a topic or an idea, you are creating new knowledge
almost, right?
Katrina Exactly.
You can think of the word revolution, which is a thing.
So you think of the Russian Revolution or the American Revolution.
These are times of change.
So to revolutionize is to bring about change.
Charles Very good.
Alright, so moving forward, they were talking about human evolution.
Human evolution.
What is that exactly?
Katrina Good question.
So you're not a monkey.
I'm not a monkey, but we come from monkeys, right?
Charles So we evolved.
Katrina Right.
So the process is called human evolution.
That means the process by which humans changed forms to become what we are today.
Charles Okay, so you evolve.
Now is it evolution?
You usually think of something positive, right?
Something evolves into something better.
Is it always that way?
Katrina No, we have another word for the negative,
right?
So the positive is to evolve, to become better.
To get worse is to devolve.
Charles Okay.
Katrina Yeah, to devolve, to go back and to kind of
lose things that you had.
Charles Okay, interesting.
And then they were also talking about Darwin's theory of natural selection.
Natural selection.
Katrina Okay, this is maybe one of the things that
Darwin was most famous for, and that's why we've included it in this language takeaway
because it's a key phrase.
It's something you hear people talk about a lot.
Okay, so natural selection is a process again, and it's the process by which stronger animals
survive over time and weaker animals don't.
So if there's a weak species, it can't really survive because it keeps dying and dying,
and then finally there's no more.
And so this is called natural selection because no one's actually choosing what animals will
survive, but it's kind of a natural process.
Charles Right, Mother Nature is choosing it.
Katrina Right.
Charles Very good.
So natural selection, this is one of the things that Darwin is most famous for.
And well, as Katrina mentioned, Darwin wrote the book Origin of the Species.
Katrina Right, so origin means beginning.
So the origin of mankind, right?
So there are many different kinds of animals.
You could even say there are many different kinds of like mammals, but there are many
different species within that.
So human beings, black bears, koalas, chimpanzees, these are all species.
And so a species is a classification.
So the origin of the species is kind of a way of telling the story of how all these
things came about.
Charles All right, the origin of the species.
And the last one, this word is kind of strange.
He talked about the conundrum of the chicken and the egg.
Katrina Okay, conundrum.
I love this word.
It's very funny sounding.
Conundrum.
It means like a problem or a riddle or something that's hard to understand.
Charles All right.
So in this case, it's the conundrum of the chicken and the egg, right, which came first.
How else can you use conundrum?
Katrina You could say that maybe there's a situation
that's very strange and hard to understand.
This is quite a conundrum.
Charles This is quite a conundrum we have.
It sounds very fancy, very well educated.
Katrina It does.
Charles All right.
So interesting words on language takeaway.
Why don't we move on now to four phrases on Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
All right, on Fluency Builder today, we have four phrases as we said.
So what's the first one?
Katrina The first one is great.
It's very visual.
You say, I'm up to my neck in work.
I'm up to my neck in papers to write.
All right, so this means I have so much stuff to do that you could pile it up and it would
come up to my neck.
Charles So I have as many papers that are almost as
tall as I am.
Katrina Exactly.
And so I could say I'm up to my neck in work.
I have no more time to do anything.
Charles Sometimes people also say I'm up to here
and then they'll like, they'll point at their forehead or somewhere around their head.
I'm up to here with your nonsense.
Katrina Exactly.
So this is a way of saying that I'm really busy.
Charles Really busy.
I'm really tired of it.
All right.
And our next phrase is one that most mothers use.
I'm sick and tired.
Katrina I'm sick and tired of all of your whining.
Go do the dishes and don't complain.
Charles Right.
So it's always, it always goes together.
You are sick and tired.
Katrina Right.
And sick comes first.
So I'm sick and tired of this.
I'm sick and tired of your bad attitude.
Charles Okay.
So and that means that you are...
Katrina I'm just tired of it.
I don't want you to have a bad attitude anymore.
I'm just, yeah.
Charles I'm really annoyed by it.
I'm annoyed.
Okay.
Sick and tired.
And then we saw a phrase that was a little bit separated.
He said the sentence went like this.
His work turned thousands of years of ideas about creation on their head.
So to turn something on its head.
Katrina Like you said, Marco, it's split into two
parts.
So he turned the field of computer science on its head.
So to turn on its head means to completely reverse something, to turn it around.
You think 180 degrees.
And so if biology used to be one way, then Darwin made it completely different.
Charles So we can say that Isaac Newton completely
turned physics on its head with his theory or his findings on gravity.
Katrina And then years and years later, we had Albert
Einstein who turned those theories or who turned that theory on its head with his own
ideas about physics.
Charles Very good.
So to turn something on its head, to completely change the course of or prove something to
be maybe wrong.
And the last phrase that we have is the person argued that Darwin's theories were full of
holes.
Katrina Okay.
So to say a theory is full of holes is a little bit
different than saying that his pants are full of holes.
Because when you say something is full of holes, maybe they actually have holes.
But a theory is it's an idea.
So it can't have holes.
What you're saying is that it's not completely sound.
It's not without some problems.
And so maybe you're saying that, well, the cookies are gone out of the kitchen, Marco.
And I saw you in the kitchen.
So clearly you ate the cookies.
Charles Right.
So I can say that's full of holes because it was me and it was three other people who
were in the kitchen.
So you can't blame me.
Katrina Ah, it could have been the other two people.
Charles Right.
So if something is full of holes, it's that it has maybe mistakes or it's still missing
complete evidence to prove it right.
Katrina Or it has bad logic.
Charles Bad logic.
All right.
Interesting.
So we've taken a look at a lot of words and different phrases here.
Let's listen to this argument one last time.
Man, it's been forever.
What have you been up to lately?
I've been busy preparing for my exams, not to mention all the term papers I've had to
write.
Same here.
I'm up to my neck in work, but at least we've got summer holidays after finals.
Where are you headed now?
I'm going to my anthro class.
We've been focusing on Darwin all term since it's the 200th anniversary of his birth or
whatever.
I'm sick and tired of Darwin, Darwin, Darwin.
What?
Why?
How can you not like Darwin?
His work turned thousands of years of ideas about creation on their head.
His theory of evolution revolutionized the fields of biology and anthropology.
I don't like him.
His theory of human evolution and natural selection is full of holes.
It's not as solid as you make it out to be.
Say that again and you'll make enemies with half of the academy, not to mention your professors.
Furthermore, the explanation proposed by Darwin about the origin of the species and the process
of natural selection constitutes a grand step towards a coherent understanding of the world
and its very beginnings.
I'm not minimizing his huge contributions to science.
It's just that his theory reminds me of the conundrum of the chicken and the egg.
What are you talking about?
Which came first, the chicken or the egg?
This is a classic logical problem and I think it applies to Darwin's theory.
How did the very first living organism come to be?
Interesting.
I think that question is better suited for my philosophy class.
In the meantime, how about we settle this with a duel?
All right, we're back.
It's interesting, Darwin's theories and his explanations for the origin of species and
life as we know it.
But there is the opposite to this, right?
There is a certain thing called creationism.
There is and this is a big source of controversy, especially in the United States because in
some places people want to teach creationism as well as evolution in schools.
So this is the big question.
Are they still equal as theories or is one theory more proven than the other?
Right.
And it is kind of hard to determine which one is better because one is based on faith,
the other one is based more on scientific evidence, right?
So they're not really even on the same scale as we learned before.
That's kind of like apples and oranges, right?
It is and there are some people who would say that we have lots of ways of quote unquote
proving what happened in the past but as long as we weren't there, we never really do know.
And there's always changes in science so how can we be sure that what we know now isn't
false, isn't misunderstanding.
I think for now, this is the best explanation but that doesn't mean that it's the correct
one.
Maybe in a hundred years from now, we'll have another explanation that's much better or
maybe complimentary to this one.
So we want to know what you guys think, come to our website englishpod.com.
We really want to hear your opinions.
What do you think about this topic?
It is a little bit controversial so we really look forward to your comments and any other
questions you may have.
Yep.
And just a reference, creationism is the idea that God created the world or a superior being
created the world and that everything came from that.
And so let us know what you think.
I am very curious too and that's about it for today.
Alright.
We'll see you guys there.
You're taking off for a walk.