Hello English learners, welcome back to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
And I'm Erika.
And today we're going to be bringing you a great lesson about calling the office.
Yeah, that's right.
So in this lesson, we're going to teach you some great words that you can use when you
need to call your office to solve a problem.
Right.
So, you are at home, you have a problem, maybe you can't go to the office, so you have to
call them and tell them that you're not going to be able to go.
Yes.
So, we're not going to preview anything today because the dialogue is relatively easy.
So let's listen to the dialogue for the first time and then we'll come back and look at
some words.
Hello, hey, Anil Day, Ekings Bay.
Aue, eimea, aealp, hei, ui, ee.
Aue, Anil Day.
Uli Jay, ir hei.
Aue, Uli Jay.
Aue, aealp, hei, ui, ee.
Aue, Uli Jay.
Actually, I'm eating, fei, aeq, hei, ee, lu, te, day.
I'm already say, ute, ir, hei, ate.
Atwe, zang, rei.
I think, te, I'm, am, en, kei, aun, day, it, te, ho, te, lu, fei.
I have, hei, ee, ere, kei.
Or, say, ho, te, ani, rei, oz, nei.
And I'm eating, fei, light, li, sei, ir, sh, fei.
I, ee, sei.
O, sei, or, yei, auling, kei, and, ik, sei.
Es, yei.
I, uz, wei, open, hei, ute, ate, of, te, ik, ku, rei, rei.
O, kei, and, nei.
I, trei, an, et, gei, aum, sei, es, trei.
All right, so a pretty easy dialogue, right?
Yeah, pretty simple.
All right.
So there are a couple of words that we want to look at.
So let's start with language takeaway.
Language takeaway.
All right, well, today we're looking at three interesting words.
The first one is ouflay.
Ouflay.
Ouflay.
Ouflay.
Marco, what is the ouflay?
All right, so when you have the ouflay, it means that you are sick.
You have, it's very similar to a cold.
Right, but just worse, right?
Worse, yeah.
So when you have the ouflay, it'll keep you in bed for a while, for maybe a week or two.
So you have a fever, your body is hurting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You're just, you're really sick.
Yeah, you're really sick.
Okay.
So, ouflay.
All right, well, what about our next word?
Well, actually the next word is a phrase that you can use when you're calling the office.
Alin ke in iksei.
Alin ke in iksei.
Alin ke in iksei.
Okay, this is a really useful phrase and I think it would help us to hear some examples
of what it sounds like so we can understand the meaning.
Example one.
Or fe iplpe ald ke in iksei ude te.
Example two.
If uye ald ke in iksei, ant one orme ayn te, or ye ayrd fe.
Example three.
Aymat ne iling fe aluwe, ose aym alin ke in iksei.
So with this phrase, you're basically saying that you are not going to the office.
Exactly.
So let's take a look at our last word for language takeaway.
Ikovore.
Ikovore.
Ikovore.
Ikovore.
Okay, so it's a pretty simple word.
Ikovore means...
To get better, to start feeling healthy again.
Okay, so kind of to recharge your batteries.
Exactly.
So this is a great verb to use when you want to say I'm going to feel better.
Okay.
Ikovore.
So some really great words, some really interesting phrases.
So let's listen to this dialogue again and then we'll come back.
Hello, hey.
Anjelde Ikingspe.
Aujey, eime aayelp.
Ahey Anjelde.
Ulijee irhe.
Ahey, uliejee.
Aueyaayuhyee.
Actually, I'm ilingfe ikwee alewute de.
I'mare sei utee irhe evaluatee.
Adwaysongre.
I hencei amiment sensitivity honesy actinng high in a skill I am unable to penetrate and
tools.
I'm eating fae, lightly say, Irish fae.
I say, oh say, or yay, all in cayenne, ick say.
S yay, I us way, open hay, oo tay, ay tay, off tay, eek curry ray.
Okay in nay, I tray, and at gay, I'm say, S tray.
Alright Marco, have you ever found yourself in a situation like this?
Well, yeah, a couple of times that I haven't been able to really make it to the office and I've had to call.
So yeah, I would have to call and tell them that I'm not going to make it or maybe that I'm going to be a little bit late.
Alright, well, yeah, it happens to all of us and now you guys have all of this useful language next time you face this problem.
Exactly, so if you have any questions or comments, be sure to visit our website EnglishPod.com.
Marco and I are there to respond to your questions and comments.
As well, there are also lots of other great lessons for you to check out on the website.
Exactly, so be sure to check out some of our first lessons. I'm sure you'll find them useful as well.
Yes.
Okay.
Well, thanks for listening everyone and until next time.
Bye.
Music