Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
And my name is Catherine and today we have a very scary story.
Spooky.
We're actually bringing you the first of our advanced media lessons and what better way
to start it with than a scary story for Halloween.
Than with.
Than with.
So what better way to start this advanced media lesson than with a scary story.
Right.
So Halloween is coming up and advanced media usually features a new story or some kind
of story that we can then kind of break down and talk about.
Just have a conversation about because you're advanced level learners and you want to have
fun with English.
So where is today's spooky story set Marco?
Well it starts out with a guy who remembers something very scary that happened to him
when he was a kid.
Okay and so one of the main characters in today's story is his great aunt.
That's right his great aunt.
And so basically this is a family member but it's your father's aunt.
Right.
Your grandmother or your grandfather's sister.
Right.
Alright so your aunt or your aunt is your parent's sibling.
But in this case we're talking about one generation older than that.
So you could say great aunt, great uncle, great grandfather, great grandmother.
It's like one step back.
So this is usually a very old person and the great aunt is definitely an important character
in today's story.
Exactly.
So let's not keep you in suspense any longer.
Why don't we listen to this scary story and we'll be right back to talk about it.
Oh no the lights went out.
Honey can you light a candle?
Sure.
What do we do now?
Well we can just talk you know like we used to.
I know.
I'll tell you a scary story.
It happened to me and my dad when I was a teenager.
I was living with my father at the time when he received a phone call.
Hello.
Yes this is him.
I see.
Sorry to hear that.
Okay no problem.
I'll be there shortly.
Pack some clothes Tony.
My great aunt is very ill and no one in the family wants to take care of her.
We're going to stay at her house for a few days.
Aunt?
What aunt?
I never knew you had a great aunt.
Well the family doesn't talk about her or get near her for that matter.
Why is that?
Come on we have to go.
So we arrived at this old house on the outskirts of our town.
There was almost no one around and the house had an eerie look to it.
Once inside the house we walked to her room and I was surprised to find my dad's great
aunt in a wheelchair yelling at someone but we were alone in the room.
Hi Aunt Ursula.
This is my son Tony.
Why have you come?
Why are you here?
Don't you know it isn't safe?
My time is near.
He's coming for me.
Who is coming for you?
The Prince of Darkness.
The Lord of the Underworld.
The Tempter.
The Old Serpent.
Come on.
Aunt Ursula let's lay you down.
You need to get some rest.
Tony help me lay her down.
That night we slept in one of the 12 rooms of that big old mansion.
The trees outside seemed to come alive and their shadows formed ghoulish shapes on my
bed.
All of a sudden we heard screaming.
Oh my God!
I can't believe it!
I won't let you take me!
Oh my God!
I can't believe it!
I won't let you take me!
Oh my God!
I can't believe it!
I won't let you take me!
I won't let you take me!
Oh my God!
I can't believe it!
I won't let you take me!
Dad!
Dad!
Dad!
Something is attacking Aunt Ursula.
The door is jammed, stand back!
Aunt Ursula where are you?
Over here!
And as we approached her she was lying on the floor with her hands and feet open like
the Vitruvian Man, breathing heavily with bloody marks and scratches on her arms, legs
and face.
Remember how I mentioned that she was in a wheelchair?
My aunt had been paralyzed from the neck down for just over a year.
After this incident, strange things would happen in the house and my aunt would yell
and scream, according to her, warding off the evil that had come to get her.
As the days passed, she became very weak and eventually was unable to talk.
My dad had to work during the day, so I was left to care for her.
When she lost her voice and laid on her deathbed, I would hear her breathe in and out.
Until finally one day, she breathed in and never exhaled.
That night, I felt relieved that it was finally over, but it wasn't.
I was so terrified of what I was hearing that I didn't sleep all night.
The following morning, I went to the bathroom, expecting to find a mess and everything torn
up, but I found everything exactly as it was before.
The movers came that same day and as we were cleaning out her drawers and personal items,
we found strange notebooks with names and amounts of money written next to them.
We found pictures with people's faces sewn with black or red string.
And you want to know what the strangest thing was?
There was a small doll filled with dead ants, with a strand of hair tied around its waist.
And on the doll's face, there was a picture of me with the numbers 31-10-09.
You know what date it is today?
October 31st, 2009.
Alright, we're back.
So, what did you think?
Pretty scary?
I got goosebumps.
It's a little spooky.
A little scary.
Now, what's interesting about this story, it's based on a true story, so that makes
it even scarier.
No.
Yeah.
Dare I ask, did this happen to you?
No, no.
I'm not old enough, but this actually happened to a family member of mine, and that's why
I know this story.
So, it was kind of told to me when I was a bit younger and I remembered it.
And well, Halloween is a great time to remember these things.
And the first time you heard it, it scared the crap out of you, right?
Oh yeah, for sure.
Actually, the first time I heard it, we were on an airplane, like on October 31st.
Oh wow.
So, it was pretty scary.
Well, we've got a lot of really interesting stuff here.
We're not going to dwell too long on the grammar or the vocabulary because we assume that most
of you have understood this, but there are a couple of things that can be really difficult
even for English speakers.
So, the first one is this phrase, my time is near.
My time is near.
So, what does that mean exactly?
Well, my time is near, my end is coming.
It means I'm very old and I'm probably going to die soon.
So my time, his time, that's when you die.
Okay, so it's always used in reference to death, right?
In this case, yeah.
So, it's used in reference to death and in this case, we have the aunt who's talking
about herself, but you could also say his time is coming, we should visit him in the
hospital.
So, it's a kind of softer way of saying that someone is going to die soon.
Right.
Okay, so my time is near or his time is near.
All right.
And then, something really interesting in this story as well, she had many different
names that she called the devil.
So, she didn't directly say the devil, she said the prince of darkness.
Prince of darkness, lord of the underworld, the tempter.
The tempter and the old serpent.
So, these are actually different ways that historically have been used to describe the
devil, right?
That's right.
And a lot of them are biblical, like the old serpent, you know, back in the first pages
of the Bible when the serpent tempts Eve, that's the devil.
And so, we hear a lot of these, especially on Halloween, these are great words to use
to kind of diversify and not say devil, devil, devil.
Right.
Okay.
So, apart from those synonyms for the devil, she also used an interesting phrase towards
the end when she said, I shall be judged before you can take me.
Hmm.
So, judged, to judge, this is to see if something is right or wrong.
But in this case, we talk about judgment at the end of a person's life.
So, that means when you go to the gates of heaven and there's Saint Peter and he has
a list of the good and the bad and he says yes or no.
Right.
And then if you're a no, you get sent down to hell.
If you're a yes, you go to heaven.
So, she says, I shall be judged.
This means, I want my day in court.
I want to have my actions analyzed by Saint Peter, not by you.
Right, exactly.
So, actually, this makes reference to a lot of beliefs in Christianity, right?
So, it's just another aspect of the story.
But of course, other religions probably don't have the same things such as the gates of
heaven and Saint Peter.
Right, the system of judgment.
Alright.
So, what did you think of the story?
Did you like it?
I really liked it.
I thought it was really spooky and I thought that it built up well.
But I really also like the imagery.
We talked about, or we haven't talked about this yet, but he describes his great aunt,
the character describes his great aunt as being spread out like the Vitruvian man.
So, you have this image of her arms spread out and her legs spread out.
You know that picture that da Vinci did of a human being and it's like an anatomy and
it's in a circle and you can see the legs and the arms.
That's just so really like a powerful visual image.
Yeah, you can imagine her laying on the bed in this position, right?
Yeah, it is pretty scary.
What about you?
Have you ever had any close encounters with the supernatural or ghosts or goblins or something
like this?
No, personally I've never had any experiences like that and I tend to not believe those
stories but maybe if this had happened to someone I knew I'd be a little bit more skeptical
or less skeptical.
What about when they have those documentaries or those recordings of strange voices or
appearances like these old castles in England or stuff like that?
What do you think?
I love those shows.
I just watched one and it was about a haunted house.
There was a woman who used a Ouija board and it let a demon out and the demon possessed
the girl and they called in a priest and the priest had to like exorcise the demon from
the little girl and the house was haunted and it was hurting people and it was like
possessing people.
Wow, it sounds like a movie.
Yeah, it does but it was like a TV show on Discovery Channel and it was really, really
fun.
I don't actually believe that a spirit could push someone down the stairs.
I think that you trip and then you attribute it to a spirit.
What about the Ouija board?
That's an interesting tool that many people say opens up portals and dimensions towards
hell or spirits can come out and stuff like that.
Well, for those of you who don't know, the Ouija board is a board, like a piece of cardboard
that has letters on it, letters and numbers.
You have this glass that you hold and once the spirit comes, it guides the glass to point
out to names or places and you spell them.
They're really popular with like 13-year-old girls who have these slumber parties and they
use it and we always say, you know, who is she going to date and then it moves.
But yeah, I believe in the power of the human mind so I think a lot of times even if we're
not aware of it, we're the ones manipulating this.
Or believing what we want to believe.
Yeah, but what about you?
Are you superstitious?
Do you believe in ghosts?
I'm not superstitious.
I don't know what to think about ghosts because I've actually had a couple of very strange
encounters with the supernatural but I really wouldn't say, oh yeah, I believe in ghosts
or I believe there are spirits that haven't been put to rest or they have unfinished business,
you know, like in Casper or something like that.
But once we were having dinner with my family in the house where we used to live and it
was a very old house and we had a glass of water on the table and all of a sudden it
started to move and to rotate across the table, the center of the table and we all saw it
and no one was touching it.
So we all were pretty confused and nervous and then just kind of burst out in nervous
laughter and we didn't really know what to make of it but it was very strange because
it moved a good amount, it was like half of the table and it was spinning at the same
time so it was very strange.
Weird.
So, things like this and, you know, in general Hispanic or Latin American culture are, they're
very superstitious.
They have a lot of beliefs in like magic or some people still say, are reluctant to give
out a picture for example because of something like this in the story.
Really?
They don't give out pictures to boyfriends or girlfriends or anyone because if you break
up or something is to happen then they could do something with that picture and maybe hurt
you.
Really?
So this idea that you have a likeness, like a picture or a doll or something, can you
talk about that because I don't really know anything about it.
Having that means that you're able to like do something to that very person?
Yeah, yeah.
Like, not necessarily like a voodoo doll, right?
Where you see that you can put pins in it and then it would hurt someone.
But people believe that pictures, for example, they capture your image and so if somebody
has it and wants to do harm or black magic then they can use that as an instrument to
get into you.
Okay.
The same as pieces of clothing or the same as hair and things like this.
So that's why there are the shamans or the Indian witch doctors who do cleansing like
this and people still actually go to them.
People in the city still believe in these things and they'll go to a shaman and get
themselves cleansed because they believe that their luck, they have really bad luck or they've
been very, very sick for a long time and doctors can't figure out what it is.
They think it's because someone has cast a spell on them or is doing some black magic
to them and they need to get it cleansed.
Oh, wow.
So, yeah, it's really, really common.
But it's all part of the folklore and the heritage of the countries.
It's actually very, very interesting and some things are just really out there, really weird.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Well, a lot of it I think comes from indigenous beliefs mixing with Catholicism too, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Because a lot of South American countries and Latin American countries are very Catholic
but they get kind of melded, these traditions with indigenous beliefs and then you have
these crazy rituals and like...
We actually have a belief and it's very true that when somebody is completely in love with
this girl and this girl is maybe not very nice or not very nice to that guy but he's
still completely into her.
So, there's this word that we say that he's been like underweared or something like that.
And the reason behind this is that one of these rituals that I talked about is that
the girl would make tea, right?
Would take a tea pot and in it would put her underpants, used underpants to make the tea
water and then would serve it to the guy.
So, the moment that he drank it, this was like a magic potion and then he would continuously
be in love with her.
Oh.
So, yeah, it's very strange.
That's gross.
Do people actually do that?
No.
It's not something that you do now but it's something that people knew about that used
to be done way, way before.
Okay.
So, people now...
It's part of the language where you say that someone has been like...
Underweared or something like that.
She cast a spell on him maybe what we would say.
So, things like this that of course aren't really done anymore but still people make
reference to it because we know it from our history that it's been done before.
How cool.
Well, I'm really curious to know if our users have any similar stories or have any scary
stories they want to tell.
I bet they do.
I'm sure they do.
And this advanced media lesson is a great place for you to do that because we expect
that a lot of advanced level learners are going to be listening to it and practicing
your writing is really important.
So, we hope that you'll put some comments on this lesson and of course ask us as many
questions as you want.
All right.
So, we'll see you guys there and have a happy Halloween.
Happy Halloween.
Bye.