Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod. My name is Marco. My name is Katherine and
here today we have almost, almost to the end of our series on giving a presentation in
English. This is part 9 of 10, so this is near the end. But we've got a lot of really
great words and phrases for discussing what you've talked about in the last, I don't know,
10 minutes or so. It's the summary of your speech and so that's what we're going to talk
about today.
That's right. So let's take a look at what Mr. Ford is saying in his summary and we'll
be back in a bit.
Right everyone. I apologize that I can't show you the marketing campaign today, but next
week you will all have the opportunity to see it for yourselves. And I have no doubt
that you will be impressed. Let me wrap up the presentation by summarizing my key points.
As I mentioned at the outset, 2010 represents a key year for Alpha Computers. The recession
is hopefully behind us. It is clear to everyone in the computer industry that demand is booming,
especially in the developing markets. If we are to succeed in this ultra-competitive field
then we really need to push forward and offer our customers products that meet their needs
on all levels. As I hope I've illustrated, the X420 represents the kind of computer that
can really satisfy those needs.
I gave you an idea of the kind of revenue we expect to hit in 2010 with the new X420
range and believe me, this is really just the beginning. Once we establish the X420
in the market, we have plans to continue to expand our range with ever more revolutionary
and impressive products.
Alpha Computers is dedicated to innovation and improvement. I really see no limit in
our potential as long as we stick to the principles I stressed earlier. Quality, excellence, and
service.
Before we move on to the Q&A section, I'd really like to leave you with a quote that
really sums up everything that we've discussed today and hopefully it will provide you with
the same inspiration that it gives me. As the great Henry Ford once said, quality means
doing it right when no one is looking. Well, in fact our customers are looking. They are
looking for us to lead the way and to give them the quality that our competitors cannot.
We cannot let them down.
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at some language on Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway.
So, Marco, at the very beginning of today's monologue, we have a phrase that basically
means the same thing as summarize. What was that phrase?
That's right. At the last sentence of the first paragraph, we see Mr. Ford say, let
me wrap up the presentation by summarizing my key points. So the phrase there is wrap
up.
It means to conclude, to finish, to end. This is the very end of his speech and so to wrap
something up means to finish it.
That's right. So maybe if you're giving a speech and someone is telling you to wrap
it up quickly.
That means stop.
That's right.
Please find an ending point. So wrap it up. Let's go. Come on.
That's right. So he's wrapping it up by summarizing what he has talked about. And so he goes back
to the very beginning and he says, as I mentioned at the outset.
Okay, the outset is a noun, it's a time and it means the beginning. So you might remember
in parts one or two of this speech that he was talking about why 2010 is an important
year for their company. And so this is the outset. This is the beginning. You can also
say at the outset things looked bad but it turns out that they went well.
Okay. So outset means beginning the start of something. Okay. And he also talked about
how the computer industry demand is booming.
All right. So booming is an interesting word because boom, the noun means boom, a sound.
To explode.
Right. It's a sound that you hear when there's a storm. But booming means doing very well.
That means that in this case demand is booming. There is a lot of demand.
That's right. So when you hear people say business is booming.
That means business is going very well. It's very successful.
Okay. So it basically means that it's doing very well, that it's growing quickly and rapidly.
So he went on to talk about the X420 and how the company has plans to keep expanding and
keep coming out with ever more revolutionary and impressive products.
Okay. So something is a revolutionary if it changes a situation. Okay. Because revolution
basically means change but not a small change, a really big change. And so a product is revolutionary
if it introduces something really new, really exciting.
Okay. So an example of a revolutionary product was the home computer.
Exactly. Because the home computer changed the way people typed and communicated and
did all these different things. And so it's revolutionary because it introduced a big
change.
That's right. Okay. So revolutionary. Towards the end of Mr. Ford's dialogue, he said that
they're going to have a Q&A section and he left us with a quote that according to him
sums up everything we've discussed today.
Okay. To sum up. This is very related to the word to summarize. It means to say in fewer
words. Okay. So this quote says what he wants to say, but it says it in a very short space.
So if we read a book and I ask you to sum up the story, this is basically I'm asking
for a summary.
That's right. So I could say, you know, the Harry Potter story is a story about a young
boy who is a wizard who loses his parents, who goes to school with his friends and learns
about his powers.
That's a perfect way to sum up the Harry Potter story. All right. Very good.
So that's about it for language takeaway today, but we have some great phrases coming up for
you in Fluency Builder. Let's listen to the dialogue again first and we'll be back in
a moment.
Right everyone, I apologize that I can't show you the marketing campaign today, but next
week you will all have the opportunity to see it for yourselves. And I have no doubt
that you will be impressed. Let me wrap up the presentation by summarizing my key points.
As I mentioned at the outset, 2010 represents a key year for Alpha Computers. The recession
is hopefully behind us. It is clear to everyone in the computer industry that demand is booming,
especially in the developing markets. If we're to succeed in this ultra competitive field,
then we really need to push forward and offer our customers products that meet their needs
on all levels.
As I hope I've illustrated, the X420 represents the kind of computer that can really satisfy
those needs. I gave you an idea of the kind of revenue we expect to hit in 2010 with the
new X420 range, and believe me, this is really just the beginning. Once we establish the
X420 in the market, we have plans to continue to expand our range with ever more revolutionary
and impressive products. Alpha Computers is dedicated to innovation and improvement. I
really see no limit in our potential as long as we stick to the principles I stressed earlier,
quality, excellence, and service.
Before we move on to the Q&A section, I'd really like to leave you with a quote that
really sums up everything that we've discussed today, and hopefully it will provide you with
the same inspiration that it gives me. As the great Henry Ford once said, quality means
doing it right when no one is looking. Well, in fact, our customers are looking. They're
looking for us to lead the way and to give them the quality that our competitors cannot.
We cannot let them down.
All right, we're back. So now let's take a look at four key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
So the first phrase we've got here in Fluency Builder is an interesting one, and I think
it's important to point out because we've got a verb and a noun that often go together.
Mr. Ford said this kind of computer can really satisfy those needs that customers have.
That's right. So the phrase there is to satisfy a need. And as you said, this verb and this
noun usually go together. You want to satisfy your customers' needs.
All right, so what do I need? I need a good computer that is fast that I can do my business
on. And this computer, the X420, satisfies that need. It does what I need it to do.
Okay, so we understand the verb to satisfy, but the phrase is a very powerful phrase,
especially if you use it in business where you're saying we are giving our customers
what they need and we are making them happy.
Exactly.
Okay. As he continued talking about the X420, he said this is just the beginning.
All right, so this is something we often say when we have a long project or plan. You can
say, yes, things are good now, but this is just the beginning. All right, there are many
good things to come. And this is something we often say in a positive way. Yes, this
is good, but expect better things in the future.
Very good. Okay, so this is just the beginning. And well, as he continued talking about the
company, he said that the customers are looking for us to lead the way.
Okay, so this is an interesting phrase because he's making a comparison with other companies
and he's saying, listen, our customers have many needs, but they want us to really be
ahead of them and to innovate and to make new things and new computers that will be
ahead of the competition. So take the lead, be in the front.
So basically the phrase to lead the way is for you to be in the front and give people
a clear path.
Think of Usain Bolt, that runner in the Olympics. Everyone's running quickly, but all of a sudden
he takes the lead. He leads the way. He is ahead of everyone else. All the other runners
are far, far behind him.
That's right. Okay, so he's leading the way and he finishes his monologue by saying, we
cannot let them down. We cannot let our customers down, basically. So the phrase here is to
let someone down.
He let me down. We let them down. This is a great phrase and you can use it about anybody.
And it's a really important phrase because it means to disappoint someone. So for example,
Marco, when you forgot my birthday, you really let me down.
Okay, so that means I disappointed you because I forgot your birthday. So to let someone
down is to disappoint them, to not do what you were expected to do.
Exactly. And so a company can do this. For example, when a company like Toyota makes
a car that has many problems, that company lets down its customers.
So you can let someone down. Basically, you have to have the subject. You let someone
down or the company let down its customers.
Exactly.
Okay. A lot of great stuff here. Why don't we take one last listen and we'll be back
in a bit.
Right everyone, I apologize that I can't show you the marketing campaign today, but next
week you will all have the opportunity to see it for yourselves. And I have no doubt
that you will be impressed. Let me wrap up the presentation by summarizing my key points.
As I mentioned at the outset, 2010 represents a key year for Alpha Computers. The recession
is hopefully behind us. It is clear to everyone in the computer industry that demand is booming,
especially in the developing markets. If we are to succeed in this ultra-competitive field,
then we really need to push forward and offer our customers products that meet their needs
on all levels. As I hope I've illustrated, the X420 represents the kind of computer that
can really satisfy those needs.
I gave you an idea of the kind of revenue we expect to hit in 2010 with the new X420
range, and believe me, this is really just the beginning. Once we establish the X420
in the market, we have plans to continue to expand our range with ever more revolutionary
and impressive products.
Alpha Computers is dedicated to innovation and improvement. I really see no limit in
our potential as long as we stick to the principles I stressed earlier, quality, excellence, and
service.
Before we move on to the Q&A section, I'd really like to leave you with a quote that
really sums up everything we've discussed today, and hopefully it will provide you with
the same inspiration that it gives me. As the great Henry Ford once said, quality means
doing it right, when no one is looking. Well, in fact, our customers are looking. They are
looking for us to lead the way and to give them the quality that our competitors cannot.
We cannot let them down.
Alright guys, so this is the penultimate lesson about presentation skills. As you saw, we
are summarizing and concluding the presentation, and there are actually a lot of great things
here to learn from, especially the vocab where you're saying, okay, let's sum things up,
to wrap it up, to conclude, to summarize.
Summarize the key points, yeah. But there are also some important things coming up next
week. That's the very, very last part of this series, because usually after a presentation,
there is a section for questions and answers. That's called Q&A, and that's the topic of
our next show. So you guys should stay tuned for that.
Alright, so we'll see you guys next time, and of course, if you have any questions or
comments, you will always find us at EnglishPod.com.
See you guys there.
Bye.
Lauren, we have a lot of questions.