Hello, everyone.
Welcome to another lesson at EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
Katerina My name is Katerin.
So, Marco, what are we talking about today?
Marco Today, we're going to be talking about a popular
topic all over the world and that is smoking.
Katerina Well, not so popular in the States right
now, to be honest.
Marco Well, that's the thing.
In every country in the world now, they are becoming more strict on smoking and where
you can smoke.
So, it's becoming very difficult for smokers nowadays.
Katerina Well, it's a good reason to want to quit.
Marco And that's what we're going to be talking
about today is quitting smoking.
Katerina Well, before we get going, we do have a really
important phrase that we should preview in today's vocabulary preview.
Vocabulary Preview Marco Alright, so on vocabulary preview, we're
going to take a look at this word pack of smokes.
Katerina Pack of smokes.
So, Marco A pack of smokes.
Katerina So, smokes is a word for cigarettes.
It's the same thing, smokes or cigarettes.
Marco Right, but a pack is, you know, like 20 cigarettes.
Katerina It's a box of cigarettes.
You buy them in a pack.
You don't just buy one at a time.
So, again, the phrase is pack of smokes.
Marco Pack of smokes.
So, why don't we listen to our dialogue for the first time and see what's going on with
this smoker.
Smoker Ah, it smells like an ashtray in here.
Smoker Hi, honey.
What's wrong?
Why do you have that look on your face?
Smoker What's wrong?
I thought we agreed you were going to quit smoking.
Smoker No.
I said I was going to cut down, which is very different.
You can't just expect me to go cold turkey overnight.
Katerina Look, there are other ways to quit.
You can try the nicotine patch or nicotine chewing gum.
We spend a fortune on cigarettes every month, and now laws are cracking down and not allowing
smoking in any public place.
It's not like you can just light up like before.
Smoker I know, I know.
I really am trying, but I don't have the willpower to just quit.
I can't fight with the urge to reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with coffee
or after lunch.
Please understand.
Katerina Fine.
I want a divorce.
Katerina Sorry, I just smoked a pack of cigarettes.
Smoker You do smoke, don't you?
Katerina Well, we'll talk about that later.
Smoker Alright, so it is a little bit extreme, though.
I mean, he's divorcing her because she won't quit.
Katerina Well, some people really are health conscious
and are afraid of the negative side of smoking, which has a lot of health side effects.
Smoker Yeah.
Well, as he was complaining about all the negative effects and the negative aspects
of smoking, he did mention, both of them mentioned a lot of great words and phrases.
So why don't we take a look at them now in Language Takeaway?
Katerina Language Takeaway.
Well, this first word is a word that's very important for any smoker who goes to a bar
or restaurant and needs to put the ash somewhere, right?
So when you smoke, there's some ash, there's some messy, dirty stuff, and you need an ashtray
to collect it.
Smoker An ashtray.
Katerina So an ashtray is something that's usually
round or square and you put it on a table and it's just very helpful to keep the house
clean or restaurant clean.
So if you're in a restaurant, you say, hey, can I have an ashtray, please?
Smoker So the residue or the stuff that when you're
smoking it comes out the gray, I don't know, like dust, it's called ash.
Katerina Right.
And this is a tray.
But the complaint here is, it smells like an ashtray in here.
That means it smells really, really bad in here.
Smoker Yeah, it smells like cigarettes.
Katerina Yeah.
So that word again is ashtray.
Smoker Ashtray.
All right.
Well, and the guy was complaining and he said, well, I thought you were going to quit smoking.
And she said, no, no, I said I was going to cut down.
Katerina She says it's very different from quitting
smoking.
So Marco, maybe we should talk about how cutting down and quitting are different.
Smoker All right.
So if I say I'm going to cut down on smoking, it's just I'm going to smoke less.
Katerina Okay, so let's take an example.
I smoke 10 cigarettes a day, but I want to cut down.
How many should I smoke later?
Maybe?
Smoker Like two or three.
Katerina Two or three.
Smoker Instead of quitting.
So if you quit smoking, that would mean zero.
Katerina Zero cigarettes, no smoking anymore.
Smoker Right.
Katerina All right.
So you can also cut down on carbs like carbohydrates.
So some people who cut down on carbs eat less bread.
They don't eat any pasta.
So these are really good ways of trying to talk about dieting as well as smoking.
Smoker Right.
And I think we have a couple of examples of other ways we can use this phrase cut down.
So let's listen to them now.
Example 1.
Our company has decided to cut down our workload.
So from now on, we leave at 3pm every Friday.
Example 2.
You should really cut down on the amount of salt you eat.
It's not good for you.
Example 3.
My doctor told me I need to cut down on fatty foods because of my heart condition.
Katerina And when you want to smoke a cigarette, you
have to do something first with some fires.
We call this lighting up.
Smoker To light up.
Katerina So lighting up, it doesn't mean turning on
the light.
It actually means using a lighter or some fire to start your cigarette.
Smoker Right.
So you want to light up with the lighter matches or some sort of fire.
Katerina The man says, the husband says, it's not
like you can just light up like before.
That means it's not like you can just smoke like before.
So in some cases, light up means to smoke a cigarette.
We're in a movie theater and someone lights a cigarette and I say, oh, you can't light
up in here.
Smoker Right.
So you can't smoke in here.
Katerina You can't smoke in here.
Smoker It's another way of saying smoking.
Very good.
And she was explaining, you know, how difficult it is and she's trying to quit.
But she said, I don't have the willpower to just quit.
Katerina Ooh, willpower.
So this is an important word.
Smoker Willpower.
Katerina Willpower.
You think of the main part of this word is will.
That means the desire to do something.
You want to do something.
Smoker So if I have willpower, I have strong willpower.
What am I saying?
Katerina You're saying that you can make a decision and you can follow your decision.
So I decide not to eat cake.
I have very strong willpower, so I never eat cake.
If I don't have strong willpower, maybe I sometimes secretly eat cake in the middle
of the night from my refrigerator.
Smoker So that happens, right?
Sometimes you don't have strong enough willpower.
So you kind of eat a little bit of cake when nobody's watching.
Katerina Exactly.
And you can have willpower about lots of different things.
So this is a great word again to use when you're talking about dieting or smoking or
drinking.
Smoker Any type of maybe temptation.
Katerina Exactly.
Smoker All right.
And well, she said she had this urge to reach for her pack of smokes.
Katerina Ooh, urge is another good one.
It's very similar to willpower, but an urge is kind of like a physical feeling that makes
you want to do something.
Smoker So you have like this strong desire.
Katerina So I have the urge to go swimming today.
I don't know why, but I really want to.
Smoker All right.
You have an urge.
Interesting word.
Katerina Pregnant women often have these kinds of things
too.
I have the urge to do something.
We also call them cravings.
Smoker Oh, cravings or urge to do something.
All right.
Interesting.
So we've taken a look at these five great words, and I think we should listen to our
dialogue again.
We're going to slow it down just a little bit, and then we'll come back and talk some
more.
OK, let's listen.
Katerina Ugh, it smells like an ashtray in here.
Smoker Hi honey.
What's wrong?
Why do you have that look on your face?
Katerina What's wrong?
I thought we agreed that you were going to quit smoking.
Smoker No.
I said I was going to cut down, which is very different.
You can't just expect me to go cold turkey overnight.
Katerina Look, there are other ways to quit.
You can try the nicotine patch or nicotine chewing gum.
We spend a fortune on cigarettes every month, and now laws are cracking down and not allowing
smoking in any public place.
It's not like you can just light up like before.
Smoker I know, I know.
I really am trying, but I don't have the willpower to just quit.
I can't fight with the urge to reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with coffee
or after lunch.
Please understand.
Katerina Fine.
I want a divorce.
And we are back.
So we have a great part of our show where we like to talk about some phrases that help
you attain fluency.
That means sounding like a native speaker of English.
And today's phrases are wonderful.
Enrique Alright, so let's take a look at them now
in Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder Enrique So on Fluency Builder today, let's take
a look at two different phrases.
And let's start with the first one.
She mentioned something about going cold turkey overnight.
What is that phrase?
Cold turkey?
Katerina Now this is a very strange phrase.
So first of all, why would a turkey be cold?
They have lots of feathers.
And second of all, what does it have to do with cigarettes?
Enrique Right.
So if I say I'm going cold turkey, what is that?
Katerina So just take this as a phrase.
Don't think about the actual words because they won't make sense in this context.
What we're talking about is quitting smoking entirely.
You're not going to cut down.
It means today I'm not going to smoke at all and I'm never going to smoke again.
That means never ever will I smoke another cigarette.
So it's cold turkey.
Enrique So if I go cold turkey, it means I stop doing
something immediately and suddenly and forever.
Katerina Entirely.
Enrique Alright.
Katerina You can use this phrase for different habits, different things that you do like
drinking, for example, or cutting down on sugar.
But generally we just say this about cigarettes.
Enrique So it's mostly related to smoking.
Going cold turkey.
Katerina Some people like to smoke less, like one
cigarette a day or one cigarette a week.
But going cold turkey is supposed to be the hardest.
Enrique Right.
Okay.
Going cold turkey.
Alright.
And well, he was explaining the different negative aspects of smoking.
He said, well, you know, they spend a fortune on cigarettes every month.
And he said, laws are cracking down.
So if the laws are cracking down, what is he trying to say there?
Katerina Well, this is actually a very interesting
point because in America right now, it's very hard to smoke in public places.
So this means that the government is trying to stop people from smoking.
So they say, no more smoking in public places, no more smoking in restaurants, no more smoking
in bars.
And so this means they're cracking down.
They're making it harder to do something.
Enrique So they are becoming more strict.
I think for this phrase, we should listen to a couple of more examples just to make
sure we understand it.
Katerina Example one.
Enrique The police are cracking down on drunk driving
in our city.
Katerina Example two.
Enrique Our school has really started to crack down
on tardiness.
Katerina Example three.
Enrique The president has passed a law that will
crack down possession of illegal substances.
Enrique Alright, so the government is cracking down.
Laws are cracking down.
Katerina Yeah, exactly.
So this is an important one because you read this in the newspapers as well about certain
laws and police action.
Enrique Alright, great.
So I think it's time for us to listen to this dialogue for one last time and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more about this vice.
Katerina Ah, it smells like an ashtray in here.
Enrique I know, I know.
I really am trying but I don't have the willpower to just quit.
I can't fight with the urge to reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with coffee
or after lunch.
Please understand.
Katerina Fine, I want a divorce.
So do you have a problem with this vice as you call it?
Are you a smoker?
Enrique I'm really not.
I'm the type of person that could maybe smoke socially like if we go out to a bar with drinks,
a social smoker like they call it, right?
Katerina Yeah, I'm jealous.
Enrique But not really.
You're a habitual smoker, right?
Katerina Right.
Well, I was.
I'm trying to cut down.
So as a habitual smoker, I often smoked every day.
Sometimes I smoked a lot and sometimes I smoked less.
But right now I'm in a period where I'm mostly quit.
Enrique Okay, almost.
Katerina Yeah, well, I haven't smoked in a while.
And when I do, it's just one cigarette.
Enrique Now, it is interesting because like we mentioned,
laws are cracking down on where you can smoke.
But also taxes and cigarettes are becoming much more expensive, right?
Katerina Absolutely, especially where I'm from in Chicago.
It's easy to spend maybe 10 US dollars or 12 US dollars on one pack of cigarettes.
Enrique On a pack of cigarettes.
Imagine that.
So then you have people that can't help smoking one or two packs a day.
So how much is that a month?
It's just an amazing amount of money.
Katerina Thousands of dollars.
Well, and I have to say, though, a lot of my friends who used to smoke in America have
quit.
So this is maybe working.
Enrique The whole thing of making cigarettes more
expensive.
Katerina Yeah, making them much more expensive.
Enrique Now, another interesting thing, and what
I was reading recently, is that you know those warnings that come on cigarette packs that
say smoking kales, smoking causes cancer.
Actually a study has proven that it's not effective, that people don't mind it or even
worry about the cautions on the cigarette packages.
Katerina Well, as a smoker, I could say that, yeah,
you generally, if you're going to smoke a cigarette, don't look at the label that much.
You just, you know, you throw it in your bag and you forget about it.
Enrique But it's actually gotten to the point where
people choose the cigarette pack based on the picture.
So it's like, oh yeah, give me the one with the black lungs or give me that one.
Katerina Oh, God.
Enrique Yeah, it's interesting.
So it's not really working.
I guess we're going to have to find other ways to make people more conscious about this
vice.
Katerina We should.
Enrique But come to our website at EnglishPod.com.
Tell us what you think about this vice, smoking.
Is it good?
Is it bad?
Are you a habitual smoker or just a social smoker?
Katerina Yeah, we also have lots of great stuff, tools
for you on our website and expansion sentences and all that stuff that helps you continue
your studies outside of, well, the car or your house.
So check it out.
Let us know what you think.
And until next time.
Enrique All right, we'll see you there.
Bye.
Katerina Bye.