Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
And my name is Catherine and today we have a cold lesson.
That's right.
It's the winter season and of course it gets cold in a lot of different places around the
world and so we're going to talk about heating.
Okay, this is very important but before we do get started, we have a very important word
to preview in Vocabulary Preview.
Vocabulary Preview.
Alright, so we're going to preview the word freezing.
It is freezing today by the way so this is very appropriate.
Freezing means very, very, very cold.
Okay, it is freezing.
Okay, so it's very cold.
It's freezing today.
It's so cold in fact you can't have water outside because the water will become ice.
It will freeze.
Okay, great word.
So let's listen to our dialogue for the very first time.
It's freezing in here.
Can I turn up the heat?
Don't touch that thermostat.
You don't pay the bills around here.
Dad, are you serious?
What's the point of having central heating if we can't use it?
Look, I can see my breath.
Put on a sweater.
I'm not going to let you run up my heating bill just because it's a bit chilly.
Dad, I'm going to catch a cold.
When I was your age, my parents didn't have central heating like you do.
We had a furnace in the center of the living room and that was it.
We used it to cook, heat the house, and even dry our clothes.
We never caught a cold.
You should be grateful.
Alright, we're back and this is actually what a lot of dads are like I think around the
world.
Yep, my dad definitely liked to keep the heat low in the house.
Alright, so we'll talk about that a little bit later but let's take a look at some four
words on Language Takeaway today.
Language Takeaway
Well, this first word is important for anyone who has a home with heating.
It's called a thermostat.
Alright, a thermostat.
What is a thermostat?
A thermostat is a dial or like a device on the wall that tells you how hot or how
cold the house is.
It's like a thermometer for your house.
Okay, so you can move the thermostat, the temperature to make the house warmer or colder,
right?
Right, so if it says it's 20 degrees and I think that's too cold, I can turn the thermostat
up to 23 degrees.
Alright, and well very much related to a thermostat and what this device does is our next word,
central heating.
Right, so if you have central heating, you have a thermostat.
It's the way to control the heat and central heating means that you have one heater for
the whole house and so the air comes into all the different rooms.
So not many places in China have this but for example in the United States, in Canada,
it is very common.
Okay, so your house or your apartment building will have central heating and then you can
control how cold or warm the house is with thermostats.
Exactly.
Very good and well our next word is related to temperature and it's chilly.
Chilly, okay, so there's a big difference between chilly and freezing.
Freezing means very very very cold.
Chilly means a little cold.
Right, so it's a little cold.
It's a bit chilly.
Right, so it's a bit chilly today, I'm going to wear a hat.
Okay, if it's freezing, I'm going to wear a hat and mittens and a scarf and coat and
boots.
Right, so if it's a bit chilly, it's not very cold and well moving on, the dad mentioned
about him having a furnace when he was young.
That's right, the dad had a furnace in his house and the furnace is a way to heat your
house.
It's like a stove.
So yeah, just consider it like a big oven, right?
Maybe you've seen it in the old movies where you would have to throw firewood into the
furnace to make it heat up the house.
Exactly, and so this is very common in older homes and not very common in apartments.
Right, and well, that's all the words we have for language takeaway today.
Why don't we listen to this chilly dialogue again.
It's freezing in here.
Can I turn up the heat?
Don't touch that thermostat.
You don't pay the bills around here.
Dad, are you serious?
What's the point of having central heating if we can't use it?
Look, I can see my breath.
Put on a sweater.
I'm not going to let you run up my heating bill just because it's a bit chilly.
Dad, I'm going to catch a cold.
When I was your age, my parents didn't have central heating like you do.
We had a furnace in the center of the living room and that was it.
We used it to cook, heat the house, and even dry our clothes.
We never caught a cold.
You should be grateful.
Alright we're back.
So now we have prepared for you three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
Okay, so this first phrase is related to thermostat.
So thermostat like we said is like a thermometer but we can control the temperature.
So if we want to make the temperature hotter, we turn up the thermostat.
So this is a phrasal verb, to turn up the heat.
You could say this about heat.
You could say this about noise too.
Can you turn up the radio?
Turn up the volume.
So it's to increase.
To increase, to make bigger or warmer or louder.
Alright and if we wanted to decrease the temperature in the thermostat, you would say...
Turn down.
Turn down the heat.
Exactly.
So it's too hot in here.
Can you please turn down the heat?
Alright, very good.
And our next phrase is, well the dad was talking about the bills and how expensive it is to
use the thermostat and he said, I'm not going to let you run up my heating bill.
Okay, so a bill is like you know, something that you pay.
It's money.
And so in this case, I don't want you to run up the bill.
That means to increase the amount of money I have to spend.
So maybe if you leave your television on all night, you're running up your electricity
bill.
Exactly.
And if you leave it on 10 hours a day, you run up the phone bill and your mother kills
you.
Right.
Alright and well the daughter was complaining about her catching a cold.
To catch a cold.
Alright, so remember this.
A cold is when you have maybe a runny nose and a cough and a sore throat.
It usually happens when the weather changes.
But we don't get a cold.
You catch a cold.
Okay.
And remember like in baseball, you throw and catch.
It's something that's fast.
Alright, so you catch a cold.
What about the flu?
Do you get the flu or catch the flu?
So you can't catch a flu but you can catch a cold.
Just remember this phrase.
To catch a cold.
I caught the cold.
To catch a cold or I caught a cold.
It's almost like if I have it, I can throw it to you Marco.
Achoo!
And you catch it.
Right, because it's in the air, the virus.
Yeah, it passes very quickly.
Alright, very good.
So an interesting dialogue.
Let's listen to it one last time.
It's freezing in here.
Can I turn up the heat?
Don't touch that thermostat.
You don't pay the bills around here.
Dad, are you serious?
What's the point of having central heating if we can't use it?
Look, I can see my breath.
Put on a sweater.
I'm not going to let you run up my heating bill just because it's a bit chilly.
Dad, I'm going to catch a cold.
When I was your age, my parents didn't have central heating like you do.
We had a furnace in the center of the living room and that was it.
We used it to cook, heat the house and even dry our clothes.
We never caught a cold.
You should be grateful.
Alright, we're back and well you mentioned about the thermostat and your dad actually
controlling the heating at home.
Was this the case like this in this scenario?
It was.
Sometimes we would have to wear more clothes because we didn't want to run up the bill.
We had a special situation in my house because I'm from Chicago and it's very cold in the
winters in Chicago but we had a fireplace.
Even if it was very cold, we always had firewood and we could put on the fire in the fireplace
to keep warm so everyone would stay in the living room and read and listen to music and
just relax.
Now I heard that because when you're burning wood, it causes some pollution.
In some cities, it's banned to actually turn on or to have a fireplace.
That's right.
But in Chicago, you can still do it.
Absolutely.
And in most of the states, you can.
Although a lot of people in new houses, they don't have real fireplaces.
They have electric fireplaces.
So you can use a light switch to turn on your fire.
It's not a real fire.
It's just a glowing light.
It's very fancy.
Alright, well very good.
This is an interesting lesson especially because the winter season is coming up and well everyone
is cold.
So we hope you enjoyed it and if you have any questions, any doubts, you can come to
our website EnglishPod.com.
We hope to see you there.
Happy studies and stay warm.
Alright.
See you soon.