Hello English learners, welcome back to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
And I'm Erica.
And today we're bringing you part 9 of our romantic drama suspense action series, I'm
Sorry I Love You.
This is actually our penultimate lesson.
Exactly, this story will end in part 10, so we're almost done.
What's happening?
Well, I am pretty excited to find out, so why don't we go straight into the dialogue
and catch up with Steven and Veronica.
Veronica, wait.
Come on, honey, get back in the car.
Let's talk it over, okay?
No, I'm tired of your lies.
I don't know who you are anymore.
Veronica, it's me, the man that has and always will love you.
I'm sorry that I've lied to you, believe me.
It's been hard for me as well.
And time and again, I've thought of coming clean.
But I couldn't put you or my mission at risk.
It's all over now.
My assignment is complete.
And now I have to go back to India.
What?
Are you kidding?
Is there anything else I should know before I never see you again?
How could you deceive me like that?
Yes.
Veronica, I know that this isn't the best time and you probably hate me right now, but
I want to be completely forthright with you.
I know deep in my heart that you are the best thing that has ever happened to me.
Veronica, will you marry me?
Come with me to India, baby.
I can't make it for everything that's happened, but I can promise you my undying love.
I will be the most devoted husband and I will cherish you always.
Steven, I can't just leave everything at the drop of a hat.
With everything that has happened between us, I just don't know you anymore.
I just can't build a relationship on a foundation of lies.
I do love you, but I can't go with you.
I'm sorry.
I love you.
This is the last call for flight A15 from Los Angeles to Hyderabad.
I'm sorry, sir.
We can't wait any longer.
You must board the plane.
Are you waiting for someone?
I was, but I don't think she's coming.
All right, so it seems like our poor Steven is going home by himself.
It's so sad.
I know.
She proposed, she didn't accept, and now he's going back to India by himself.
I think this must be one of the worst feelings in the world, wondering if the person you
love is going to show up at the last minute and realizing they aren't.
I think it's very common of movies, you always expect the person to come running and show
up, but as you can see, our dialogues are more realistic, so it didn't happen in this
occasion.
More realistic.
Okay.
Anyway, let's not debate that topic.
Let's go straight into the language now with Language Takeaway.
Language Takeaway.
All right, so today on Language Takeaway, we have six words that we're going to be looking
at and let's get started with the first one.
Okay, so we've got language about love and language about telling the truth.
And the first one is a word about telling the truth.
So Steven said, I've thought of coming clean.
Okay, to come clean.
To come clean.
Now if I want to come clean, it means I want to...
You want to admit to something or to tell the truth about something you've been hiding.
Exactly.
Okay, so I want to finally tell the truth or confess.
So someone needs to come clean about who stole the chocolate out of the kitchen.
Okay, come clean.
So Steven wanted to come clean on many occasions, but Veronica said, how could you deceive me
like that?
Deceive someone.
How could you deceive me?
So to deceive someone.
All right, to deceive.
When you deceive somebody, you make them believe something that is untrue.
So you kind of trick them.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, make them believe or see something that is not really true.
Exactly.
All right, so that's the verb, to deceive.
Now the noun, the action of doing this is called deception.
It was all a great deception.
Okay, so a big trick, something, a big untruth.
You deceived me.
All right, very good.
And now the opposite of deceive.
Is to be forthright.
Forthright.
So Steven wants to be completely forthright with Veronica.
Okay, I want to be forthright with you.
All right, when you are forthright with somebody, you are very honest and truthful with them,
right?
Direct.
You don't defend everything directly.
So you don't hide it or soften it or anything.
Very good.
So forthright.
All right, so three words about honesty.
Now we've got three words about love for you.
So Steven promised Veronica his undying love.
My undying love.
My undying love.
Now undying.
Well, I think it's pretty easy, right?
It won't die.
It won't die, exactly.
So he's offering her his love forever.
A very romantic phrase.
Very romantic.
And he also promised to be a devoted husband.
Devoted husband.
I'll be the most devoted husband.
Now this word devoted, what am I saying there?
So as a devoted husband, Steven really, really would love his wife.
He'd really look after her well and he would put all of his energy into his marriage, right?
Okay, so he would be very committed to her.
And work really hard.
Now can I change the noun husband for something else?
Yeah, we can talk about a devoted friend.
Or a devoted father.
Or a devoted employee.
Very good.
And our last word about love.
Well, Steven also promises to cherish Veronica.
Okay, I will cherish you always.
I will cherish you always.
So if I cherish somebody like my girlfriend, what would that mean?
That means you hold her in your heart, like you really love her and you really respect
her and you hold her close in your heart.
Okay, so I respect her and maybe you don't take that person for granted.
To cherish someone.
Yeah.
Alright, so some nice honesty words, some nice love words and I think now we can move
on to some interesting phrases with Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
Alright, so Veronica was upset.
She didn't want to get back in the car and Steven said, let's talk it over, okay?
Let's talk it over.
Let's talk it over.
To talk something over.
Now if I tell you that I want to talk it over, what am I saying?
Well obviously you want to talk about it, right?
But you want to talk about it for some time.
To really talk about all of the problems and the issues and everything.
So to try and make things clear.
Exactly.
Alright.
So when he was confessing, he said, time and again I've thought of coming clean.
So this phrase, time and again.
Time and again.
Time and again.
So that's basically the same as saying again and again or many times.
Right.
So time and again I've thought of quitting smoking but never really have done it.
So you've thought many times of doing it.
Time and again.
Yep.
Alright, so let's go to our next phrase.
Now Veronica said, I can't just leave everything at the drop of a hat.
At the drop of a hat.
At the drop of a hat.
So this is a very interesting and colloquial way of saying immediately.
So why don't we hear a few examples of how this is used in English.
Example one.
My boss expects me to come into work at the drop of a hat.
Example two.
Laura is always willing to help me at the drop of a hat.
Example three.
I can't leave at the drop of a hat.
I need time to prepare.
Okay, so as you can see, you can change it for different things but basically you're
saying I can't do something immediately.
Yeah, and it is almost always attached to this idea of doing something or going somewhere,
being somewhere.
Very good.
At the drop of a hat.
Alright, now our final phrase here for this lesson.
So Veronica was saying I can't go to India at the drop of a hat and she also said I just
can't build a relationship on a foundation of lies.
Okay, a foundation of lies.
To build something on a foundation of lies.
Now this is interesting.
Let's take a look at this.
Foundation what is that?
Well you know you have a house, right?
And the part that's in the ground that supports the house is the foundation.
Okay, so it supports the entire structure.
Right.
So here she refers to the lies as the foundation.
And that's no way to start a strong relationship, is it?
Exactly.
So we use it metaphorically in this way but we can always, but we always have to say it,
but we always have to use the verb build.
Okay, so it's basically to make something on a base of something else, right?
So for example, a strong relationship is built on a foundation of trust.
Or this country was built on a foundation of liberty.
Very good.
So always use foundation with built.
Very good.
Very interesting.
And well I think we should listen to this dialogue for the last time and then we'll
come back and talk a little bit more about Veronica and Steven.
Veronica, wait.
Come on, honey.
Get back in the car.
Let's talk it over, okay?
No.
I'm tired of your lies.
I don't know who you are anymore.
Veronica, it's me, the man that has and always will love you.
I'm sorry that I've lied to you, believe me.
It's been hard for me as well and time and again I've thought of coming clean.
But I couldn't put you or my mission at risk.
It's all over now.
My assignment is complete and now I have to go back to India.
What?
Are you kidding?
Is there anything else I should know before I never see you again?
How could you deceive me like that?
Yes.
Veronica, I know that this isn't the best time and you probably hate me right now but
I want to be completely forthright with you.
I know deep in my heart that you are the best thing that has ever happened to me.
Veronica, will you marry me?
Come with me to India, baby.
I can't make it for everything that's happened but I can promise you my undying love.
I will be the most devoted husband and I will cherish you always.
Stephen, I can't just leave everything at the drop of a hat.
With everything that has happened between us, I just don't know you anymore.
I just can't build a relationship on a foundation of lies.
I do love you but I can't go with you.
I'm sorry.
I love you.
This is the last call for flight A15 from Los Angeles to Hyderabad.
I'm sorry, sir.
We can't wait any longer.
You must board the plane.
Are you waiting for someone?
I was but I don't think she's coming.
So Marco, I think I see a bit of a tear there in the corner of your eye.
I'm very sad.
I can't believe he proposed and she just said no.
Just like that.
Well, it's not supposed to happen.
Plus, he was inviting her to India and exotic getaway and promising.
Exotic getaway for the rest of her life.
Well, what do you think will happen?
Part 10, it all ends.
So do you think they all just keep on living their separate lives?
Will they meet again?
Who knows?
Come to our website and tell us what you think will happen.
So you can find us at EnglishPod.com.
All right.
Don't miss our finale of this lesson and until next time, we'll see you guys there.