Hello everyone and welcome to EnglishPod.
My name is Marco.
My name is Katherine and welcome everyone.
Today we've got an elementary level lesson for you.
It's all about sending things through the mail.
That's right.
So maybe gifts, maybe letters.
We're going to the post office so why don't we jump right into this dialogue.
Let's listen to it for the first time and we'll be right back.
Hi I would like to send this package to China and these postcards as well.
Very well.
You will need some stamps for the postcards and I need to weigh that package too.
Great.
How much is this going to cost?
Well it depends.
Do you want to send it via priority, express or standard mail?
What's the difference?
Well standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
Priority is a bit faster and will arrive in about 5 to 8 working days.
Express is the fastest but it's also the most expensive.
It only takes three days and you can track your package online.
I see.
Well there's no rush.
Please send it via priority mail.
Please be extra careful.
The contents of the package are fragile.
All right so pretty simple dialogue.
We want to send a package through the mail.
So why don't we take a look at some of those mail related terms in Language Takeaway.
Alright so the first item we're going to talk about in today's Language Takeaway is something
you can send.
It's called a postcard.
A postcard.
Okay so very popular among people who are traveling and they want to send a postcard
back home.
That's right.
So a postcard is something that you usually buy at a tourist destination like Walt Disney
World for example.
And it has a picture on the front and some words on the back.
So you can write a letter on the back of this picture.
So it's very simple.
It's not really a letter.
You don't put it in an envelope.
You just write whatever you want on the back of the postcard.
But you do have to put a stamp on it in order to send it.
That's right.
So stamp is our next word.
A stamp comes in different price ranges.
That means that some stamps are more expensive than other stamps.
This is like money for the mail.
So you have to buy the stamps and in order to prove that you have paid for the letter
that you want to send, you must place the stamps on the letter on the envelope or on
the postcard, right?
So depending on the size and weight, it costs more.
That's right.
And usually you lick a stamp to place it on the card so it doesn't fall off.
True.
That's right.
You gotta lick it.
Alright.
So as we talked about, a package can be a letter, a postcard.
You place stamps on it and we need to weigh the package to know how much money we have
to pay.
That's right.
So sometimes a package is very heavy if it's filled with books for example.
Sometimes it's very light if it's filled with clothes or feathers.
And so to find out how much something weighs, we have to weigh it.
This is a verb.
Okay.
So this is a verb, right?
To weigh.
So you want to know how many kilos or how many pounds this item has.
Right.
So we could say, it weighs a lot or how much do you weigh?
Okay.
Things like this.
Very good.
Alright.
Moving on, we have the different types of mailing speeds, I guess, right?
So we saw three, via priority mail, express mail or standard mail.
So let's go in parts.
Let's go with the first one, via priority mail.
Priority is fast.
It means priority is something that's important.
So I have many priorities at work.
This means they're important.
Very important.
So this letter has a certain importance.
It's a little bit more important than for example, the other letters.
That's right.
But express is the most important, the fastest.
So something that's express is fast.
Like an expressway is the fast highway.
Express mail.
Okay.
So express mail is the fastest.
And now the normal cheapest mail is standard mail.
Standard.
So the word standard usually means the average or the normal mail.
And in this case, it usually takes the longest.
Okay.
So obviously standard mail is the cheapest.
Express mail is the most expensive because it's the fastest.
That's right.
So we've got all of those speeds.
Now let's listen again to today's dialogue and try and listen for the words we just talked
about and we'll be back in a moment to talk about some important phrases.
Hi, I would like to send this package to China and these postcards as well.
Very well.
You will need some stamps for the postcards and I need to weigh that package too.
Great.
How much is this going to cost?
Well it depends.
Do you want to send it via priority, express or standard mail?
What's the difference?
Well, standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
Priority is a bit faster and will arrive in about five to eight working days.
Express is the fastest but it's also the most expensive.
It only takes three days and you can track your package online.
I see.
Well, there's no rush.
Please send it via priority mail.
Please be extra careful, the contents of the package are fragile.
Alright we're back so now let's take a look at three key phrases on Fluency Builder.
Fluency Builder.
Alright, so the first phrase today is one that I like to use a lot.
We say, it depends.
How much is this going to cost?
Well, it depends.
So the phrase could be, it depends.
So it depends.
When do you usually use this?
Okay, if you ask me a question, I can have one answer but maybe there's another possible
answer.
For example, what are you going to wear tomorrow, Marco?
It depends if it rains or not.
Okay, it depends.
If it rains, I will wear a raincoat.
If it's sunny, I will wear a normal coat.
So it depends means there is a situation or a circumstance that might change and if it
does, my answer will change.
Right, so it is a conditional, it depends.
For example, I can ask you, what are you going to eat tonight?
It depends.
If I exercise, I'm going to have a hamburger and if I don't exercise, I'll have a salad.
Nice, okay.
So it depends.
Now we have another phrase when they were talking about how long it's going to take
to mail something.
He said standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
So we have this little phrase there, up to.
Up to.
So up to, when you hear this, these two words together, that's an indication, it's a sign
that we're talking about the maximum, the most.
Okay so tomorrow, the temperature might go up to 24 degrees Celsius.
Okay so the temperature maximum will reach 24.
It could be maybe 22, 21.
But not 25.
Not 25.
No, because up to means the top.
So you're usually dealing with numbers, right?
For example, this coat can cost up to $150.
Wow, so the most I will spend is $150.
So sometimes you have a number like this when we're talking about sending a package.
We can send packages that weigh up to 10 kilos.
Not more than 10 kilos though.
Okay, very good.
And now for our last phrase to close off the dialogue, the guy said, well you know what,
there's no rush.
No rush.
There's no rush.
Okay, well the first word we want to look at here is the word rush.
In this case, we're talking about sending a package and the postcard, right?
So does this person want it to arrive fast?
He says no.
No, there's no rush.
Let's send it standard.
It's cheaper.
Okay, so maybe your friend is like, come on, we're going to be late.
And you're like, no, there's no rush.
We have one hour before the movie starts.
Calm down.
Okay, so you're not in a hurry.
No, there's no rush.
Slow down.
It's okay.
This is a good one to talk about with friends or if you're working on a project at work.
You say, listen, there's no rush.
Take your time.
Okay, very good.
So let's go back to our dialogue.
Let's listen to it for the very last time and we'll be back in a bit.
Hi, I would like to send this package to China and these postcards as well.
Very well.
You will need some stamps for the postcards and I need to weigh that package too.
Great.
How much is this going to cost?
Well, it depends.
Do you want to send it via priority, express or standard mail?
What's the difference?
Well, standard mail can take up to 15 working days.
Priority is a bit faster and will arrive in about five to eight working days.
Express is the fastest, but it's also the most expensive.
It only takes three days and you can track your package online.
I see.
Well, there's no rush.
Please send it via priority mail.
Please be extra careful.
The contents of the package are fragile.
All right, we're back.
So now, Catherine, do you usually send postcards when you are abroad, when you travel?
Yes, I love postcards.
And actually, I have some friends who have an amazing postcard collection.
Oh, really?
But it's not normal postcards.
They find the most ugly postcards and they buy them and they write silly notes and they
send them to themselves.
Oh, really?
I have the tradition of always sending my parents and my grandparents a postcard when
I'm abroad.
That's so sweet.
They have a collection of all the places you've been.
Yeah, yeah.
So all the time, wherever I am, the first thing that I try to do if I'm in a cool place,
I send them a postcard.
And sometimes if I'm in a country in various cities and there are some nice things in,
for example, two or three cities, I'll send them three postcards.
That's awesome.
So do they have a book at home with all of these postcards?
Yeah, they do.
So I just send them a little thing, how I'm doing and how great it is and wish you could
be here, little notes.
And then they have all the collection.
It's really cool because that way I've actually kept track a little bit of what year and what
date I was in certain places.
Wow.
Well, it's also nice because postcards, you don't need to write a very long note.
There's no space.
You just write a short note.
You say, hi, how's the weather?
Miss you.
Wish you were here.
Right.
Okay.
So that's all the time we have for today.
But let us know if you've had any inconveniences at the post office.
I actually had one once.
I couldn't send batteries through the mail because they have acid apparently.
Oh, yeah.
It's very difficult to send.
So maybe you've had a situation like this before.
Let us know, EnglishPod.com.
We'll see you guys there.
Bye, everyone.
Hey, you can, too.